---
layout: post
title: Intentional Living
date: 2018-05-07 19:34:00 -0600
category: alaska
---
In the last last couple of years, I've realized a few things.  

First, this may be obvious, but we have a very limited time on this planet.  I'm 34, and looking back from here, life has a been a blur.  A twisty, turny, crazy, blur.  Turns out, nothing I expected when I graduated from high school, college, or graduate school really materialized the way I thought it would.  Not even close.  And as a result, I felt myself settling into auto pilot. I had a secure job, a house, and a daily routine that left me thinking "Is this it? Do I spend the rest of my days like this?"

Second, we all have bucket lists and in my case the number of items on the list only gets larger.  If we want to whittle that down, we have to really make an effort to do it.  Nothing happens when you go home every night and watch TV.  Trust me, I've tried it.

Third, most of the things on my bucket list and take time.  When I talk about visiting somewhere, I really want to spend some time there; try the local cuisine, see the local spots, relax a bit.  A few hours on a layover definitely does not count.  A few days barely gets me enough time to get acclimated.  This is directly in conflict with the amount of vacation time we are typically alotted in the working world.  At my last job, it was 3 weeks per year - including sick days.  Throw in some family time, maybe a wedding or a funeral, a couple of three day weekend trips, and the holidays, and that vanishes pretty quickly.

It seems like the most normal thing to do is just to save up that bucket list, and save up the retirement account, and then put the two together someday.  I really am not a fan of this plan - there are zero guarantees that I will make it that far, and if I do, I may not be healthy enough to do much besides sit around and watch TV.  I don't want to dwell on this too much, but there are plenty of people out there who work their whole lives and never make it to retirement.

So, after the last four years of my life evaporated away in an unproductive blur, I decided that it was time for a change.  I needed to live more intentionally - cut out things that don't matter and clear space for those experiences and people I care about.  Those items on my bucket list need to come off, and not because I gave up on them.  Not only that, but I'm changing the way I make my living, both to facilitate my desire to travel and my own sanity.  

The first item on that bucket list is Alaska.  Ever since my Dad spent a little time working there when I was in kindergarten it has held a sense of wonder for me.  To top that off, when I read about people riding motorcycles up there when I was shopping for my motorcycle nearly 10 years ago, I knew I really wanted to do that; but I never thought I'd get the chance.

Well, here we are, a perfect storm.  I have the time (yay, unemployment!), the money (yay, savings!), the will, and its the right time of year.  I'm going to knock Alaskaoff the bucket list while I can.
