---
layout: post
title: 
date: 2018-06-23 19:34:00 -0600
category: alaska
---

To the land of Maple leafs, hockey and snow

---

After packing up once again, I left Kalispell behind and went on to Whitefish.  I had a particular bakery in mind, but when I got there, it was the crepery that caught my eye.  I hadn't seen one of those for a while, you don't see them much outside of France.  So I stepped in and sure enough, they had exactly what I needed:  coffee, and a crep they called the Darth Crepe - cheddar, bacon, jalapeno, and egg.  In a crepe. It was everything I hoped for in such a contrivance.

After that and some very interesting people watching (or really, kid watching.  ), I wandered up the street and didn't see a whole lot, except I did find this patch that I'm going to have to sew onto something at some point:

[guacamole patch]

Next it was time to face my fears and make for the Canadian border.  The drive from Whitefish to Rooville is really pretty, but there was quite a bit of traffic.  I hadn't filled up on gas yet, so I was mentally figuring the math for how far I could go.  Last time I hit reserve was in South Dakota, at 175 miles.  But, I was getting about 45 mpg at that time due to the wind and being on the interstate.  Here the speed was slower, and there was less wind, so I figured I should be at least okay to Eureka, the last town before the border.  

Just outside of Eureka, I saw a gas station and pulled in.  Go to put my card in the pump annnd.... its dead.  Completely off.  I look around, there's people waiting around, and a sign on the door - "Sorry, closed due to power failure."  Huh.  So I kept going into Eureka, all of the stations with their LED signs were off, and people were waiting for gas.  I re-ran the math, and figured that even if I hit reserve at the border, there was a station on the other side about 10 miles that I could get gas at.

I think this worked to my advantage.  According to the internet, at peak times, the wait at this border to get into Canada can be 3-4 hours.  They didn't say what peak times were, but I assume we wouldn't be far from one with the summer vacation season in full swing and lots of people heading north.  But, I think most of those people were sitting at a pump in Eureka.  All in all, I was through the border in 30 minutes.  As usual, border guards have no sense of humor, and bear spray definitely does not count as a weapon *as long as it is labelled for use on bears*.  I'm not sure what would have happened had it been regular pepper spray.

Free of the border, I rode forth into Canada.  I never hit reserve on fuel, but I stopped at the first store I could, the Grasmere General Store.  There wasn't much there.  2 of the old gas pumps with the mechanical meter and the big switch on the side.  I tried it, and it worked, gas came out! 

 
