---
layout: post
title: The People You Meet
date: 2018-06-23 19:34:00 -0600
category: alaska
---

Everyone has a story.

---
I maintain that one of the best ways to meet random people is to load up a beat up motorcycle with gear and go for a solo road trip.  Between the motorcycle making people question your sanity and being solo, it makes it easy for people to talk to you.  It never happens when I'm with a group of people, but when I'm alone I can get into conversations with lots of people. This post is about some of the people I've met this trip.


# The Waitress at Two Sisters

We really didn't get to talk much, at least not until I was looking at the dessert menu and mentioned that I didn't like peaches, even though I'm sorta from the South.  Turns out, she's from Georgia.  She, like many people ended up out in Glacier because she was tired of the 8-5 schedule and wanted to see what else was out there.  The gig at Two Sisters is just seasonal and she expect to be let go at the end of the summer.  At that point, she's probably going to wander on down to Colorado and maybe work at a ski resort.  

# Inga

Inga and her two children, Juniper and Moss have been on the road for over a month now, jumping from park to park, presumably as part of a summer vacation.  I first saw them when they finally arrived at the campsite next to mine, one of the kids hopped out and helped direct Inga to back up their Sprinter van into the camping spot.  It t was like a well oiled machine, they've clearly set up camp a lot.   I was sitting at my campfire when Inga walked by and I waved and said "Hello!"  It didn't take long before we were trading travel stories, apparently she hasn't had a whole lot of conversation with adult humans in the last month.   She was originally from Colorado, and moved to Louisiana ("Oh the things we do for love," she said), and has been there ever since.  When the topic moved to my trip to Alaska, she was so excited for me, she lived in Alaska for a while and loves it.  To her, one of the amazing things is that when you're in Colorado, you can sit at 8 or 9 thousand feet and look at a fourtneener and its pretty neat.  But when you're in Alaska, you can sit at sea level, and look at a huge mountain, bigger than a fourteener, and it will seem so much bigger.  Anyway, we didn't get to talk much before we all crashed for the evening.  When I got out of the tent in the morning, they were already gone.  But, next to my kickstand at my motorcycle was a note:

I'm not much of a keeper of sentimental objects, but I think this one is going to stick around.  I actually saw them once again when I was out test riding the changes to my pelican cases.  I thanked her for the note, and the osteoderm, and that was that.  They were off to Calgary the next day to pick up her husband (I'm sure thats a relief for her), and I was on my way to Kalispell.


# The motorcyclist from Maine, and his Wife (Karen)

He has a name, I bet.  But I sure can't remember it.  My first night in Rising Sun campgorund he wandered around from his campsite and commented on my bike.  He and his wife are touring on a BMW R1200GSA for this trip, but he has a KLR at home that they both love.  

# My Neighbor at Glacier

# The Store Keeper in Argus Village

# The Xanterra People

# A Gal and Her Mom

# Lady at the Laundromat





